# Nx Dependency Checks

In this exercise you'll learn how to validate the dependencies of your projects with eslint.

# 1. Setup @nx/dependency-checks rule

Open the `/apps/movies/.eslintrc.json` file and add the `@nx/dependency-checks` rule into the
existing `overrides` section

<details>
  <summary>/apps/movies/.eslintrc.json</summary>

```json
{
  "files": ["*.json"],
  "parser": "jsonc-eslint-parser",
  "rules": {
    "@nx/dependency-checks": [
      "error",
      {
        "includeTransitiveDependencies": true
      }
    ]
  }
}
```

</details>

# 2. Adjust project.json lint target

We also need to teach the linter that the `project.json` file is a file that we care about. For this,
adjust the `apps/moives/project.json` file and include the `project.json` file as a file that should
be linted.

Search for the `lint` target and add the `project.json` as a file dependency.

<details>
  <summary>adjust the movies/project.json lint target</summary>

```json
{
  "lint": {
    "executor": "@nx/eslint:lint",
    "outputs": ["{options.outputFile}"],
    "lintFilePatterns": [
      "apps/movies/**/*.{ts,tsx,js,jsx}",
      "apps/movies/package.json" // 👈️
    ]
  }
}
```

</details>

# 3. Run linter

Run the lint target for the movies project

```bash

nx lint movies

```

You should see that nothing happens 🤔 Let's figure out what is going on here.

# 4. Create package.json

If no package.json exists, the linter actually doesn't care about at all. 
Let's create an empty package.json file and see what the linter is complaining about.

Please create an empty `package.json` file in `apps/movies/`

# 5. Run lint again

Execute the linting job again.

```bash

nx lint movies

```

You should see that it is actually failing because the package.json doesn't reflect the actual dependencies
of the project.

Don't fear, help is near ;)

# 6. Run lint --fix

Execute the linter with `-- fix`, it should populate your package.json file with actual dependencies.

```bash

nx lint movies --fix

```

# 7. Think about the outcome, what could go wrong here?

Please see the contents of the generated `package.json` file and see what was populated.
Do u think the file is a state which reflects all dependencies your application has right now?
If not, what dependencies are missing and how do you think this happened?
